Process description quality management takeover from old process repository (#21)
eclipse-score/process_description: process/process_areas/quality_management/quality_concept.rst

..
   # *******************************************************************************
   # Copyright (c) 2025 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
   #
   # See the NOTICE file(s) distributed with this work for additional
   # information regarding copyright ownership.
   #
   # This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
   # terms of the Apache License Version 2.0 which is available at
   # https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   #
   # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
   # *******************************************************************************

Concept
#######

.. doc_concept:: Quality Management Concept
   :id: doc_concept__quality__process
   :status: valid
   :tags: quality_management

In this section a concept for the Quality Management will be discussed. Inputs for this concepts is ASPICE SUP.1
as quality standard. And also in aspect to the development the addressed requirements from ISO 26262, ISO/SAE 21434
and ISO PAS 8926.

Inputs
******

#. Stakeholders for the Quality Management
#. Who needs which information?
#. How is Quality ensured?

> Stakeholders for the Quality Management

Reviewer: Missing Project Leads as Approver in your workflows

=======================================

#. :need:`Quality Manager <rl__quality_manager>`
    * Responsible for the quality conformance in the platform and the project
    * Monitoring and improving of quality activities
    * Execution of Audit's, Quality Checks and Work Product Reviews
    * Approval of work products

#. :need:`Technical Lead <rl__technical_lead>`
    * Support the work products
    * Approval of Process Audits

#. :need:`Committer <rl__committer>`
    * Responsible for the work products

#. :need:`Safety Manager <rl__safety_manager>`
    * Supports the quality activities

#. :need:`Security Manager <rl__security_manager>`
    * Supports the quality activities

Standard Requirements
=====================

Also requirements of standards need to be taken into consideration:

* ASPICE PAM 4.0
* ISO 26262:2018
* ISO 21434:2021
* ISO PAS 8926:2024

General Quality Concept
=======================

The Quality Concept is based on the requirements of the standards and were derived into the Quality Performance

> Objectives that are listed in the Quality Management Plan. The Quality shall be continuous

Reviewer: then we should really take this from the QMS in score here as part of the template

> checked and improved during the development. All tasks are planned within the Quality Management Plan.

Reviewer: Is there a planning section, in the template?

Author: Yes it is. Chapter 4 is for planning

> For every release a platform process audit shall be performed. Also a conformance check for every feature release.

Author: Reformulate the sentence to keep in in a concept description.

   # information regarding copyright ownership.
   #
   # This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
   # terms of the Apache License Version 2.0 which is available at
   # https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   #
   # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
   # *******************************************************************************

Concept
#######

.. doc_concept:: Quality Management Concept
   :id: doc_concept__quality__process
   :status: valid
   :tags: quality_management

In this section a concept for the Quality Management will be discussed. Inputs for this concepts is ASPICE SUP.1
as quality standard. And also in aspect to the development the addressed requirements from ISO 26262, ISO/SAE 21434
and ISO PAS 8926.

Inputs
******

#. Stakeholders for the Quality Management
#. Who needs which information?
#. How is Quality ensured?

Stakeholders for the Quality Management
=======================================

#. :need:`Quality Manager <rl__quality_manager>`
    * Responsible for the quality conformance in the platform and the project
    * Monitoring and improving of quality activities

>     * Execution of Audit's, Quality Checks and Work Product Reviews

Reviewer: Quality Checks is what? Feature Contribution Checks, Release Approvals?

#. :need:`Technical Lead <rl__technical_lead>`
    * Support the work products
    * Approval of Quality Management Plan, Platform Process Audit, Feature Process Conformance Checks, Feature Work Product Reviews, Consult and Execute Quality Trainings, Monitor/Improve Quality Activities

#. :need:`Project Lead <rl__project_lead>`

>     * Support the work products

Reviewer: There is no wf, which is supported by the project leads

    * Approval of Platform Release

#. :need:`Committer <rl__committer>`

>     * Responsible for the work products

Reviewer 2: Is the committer responsible for all work products?

Author: Corrected it according the workflows

#. :need:`Safety Manager <rl__safety_manager>`
    * Supports the quality activities

#. :need:`Security Manager <rl__security_manager>`
    * Supports the quality activities

Standard Requirements
=====================

> Also requirements of standards need to be taken into consideration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quality requirements of the following standards need to be taken into consideration:
```

* ASPICE PAM 4.0
* ISO 26262:2018
* ISO 21434:2021
* ISO PAS 8926:2024

General Quality Concept
=======================

The Quality Concept is based on the requirements of the standards and were derived into the Quality Performance
Objectives that are listed in the Quality Management Plan. The Quality shall be continuous
checked and improved during the development. All tasks are planned within the Quality Management Plan. These
includes tasks like platform process audit or process conformance checks which have to be planed to milestones

> or in a contious manner. Only 100% compliant work products / releases will be delivered to the community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or in a continuous manner. Only 100% compliant work products / releases will be formally delivered to the community.
```
Note that in principle we are delivering something already when we put it in the repository as a branch or PR. It is accessible and can be treated as a form of delivery. Here the formal delivery in form of a release is meant.

Every person who contributes shall be trained according to Quality aspects. The committers will ensure the Quality
by following the workflows defined in the process areas and by producing the required work products. The Quality

> Manager / Technical Lead for Platform Process Audit approves it. Thus the independence between the Project and

Reviewer: independently approve it?

   # Copyright (c) 2025 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
   #
   # See the NOTICE file(s) distributed with this work for additional
   # information regarding copyright ownership.
   #
   # This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
   # terms of the Apache License Version 2.0 which is available at
   # https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   #
   # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
   # *******************************************************************************

Concept
#######

.. doc_concept:: Quality Management Concept
   :id: doc_concept__quality__process
   :status: valid
   :tags: quality_management

In this section a concept for the Quality Management will be discussed. Inputs for this concepts is ASPICE SUP.1
as quality standard. And also in aspect to the development the addressed requirements from ISO 26262, ISO/SAE 21434
and ISO PAS 8926.

Inputs
******

#. Stakeholders for the Quality Management
#. Who needs which information?
#. How is Quality ensured?

Stakeholders for the Quality Management
=======================================

#. :need:`Quality Manager <rl__quality_manager>`

>    * Creating/maintain Quality Management Plan

Reviewer: Some format issues, does not show up as list in sphinx-documentation
